Auction, which determines a prospective buyer and an honest seller in a marketplace, have been widely adopted by the online communities. With the emergence of electronic commerce and low transaction costs on the Internet, an interest in the design of new auction mechanisms has been arisen. Many researches in this area have focused on automatic bidding through sniping robots which usually leads to a boring and disruptive auction event. This research proposes a systematic method of auction that relates more to the users and for the users.

> In this study, we first analyze the existing approaches and determine a common problem. Based on our analysis, issues regarding online auction are mostly in the choice of an auction strategy which is more likely to occur in the bidding process. BidZone is a third party service auction system, which facilitates the auction process from the posting of an item up to the exchange of information and negotiations of both sellers and buyers. The proposed system will be designed as highly-scalable and capable of supporting large number of bidders in an active auction. Our goal is to develop a user-friendly auctioning site where any items can be auctioned and be provided with a safe environment in delivering service to the bidders and the sellers nationwide. Moreover, we are promoting rules and regulations to control the flow of the bidding process. Furthermore, any registered user of BidZone, that is the bidder and the seller, has the privilege to monitor the bids placed to any product being auctioned in the site. In BidZone, a bidder can place a bid directly from an android device or from any computer through a web browser.  It also allows a bidder to participate in several auctions at the same time. In addition, our system also allows a seller to bid for other auctioned items while trying to sell his items and vice versa. In other words, a user can play both the role of a bidder and a seller simultaneously.

> BidZone offers an exciting way of auction targeting the local community in the Philippines. This capstone project entails a detailed performance study about the system and the implications of using such a system by considering the users’ side in the auction process.